# Project-302
23 MW Biomass based power supply to grid at Kumbhi, Uttar Pradesh (UCR ID Number: 302)
____________
The project activity involves 23 MW bagasse fuelled green power supply to grid. The project is
developed by Balrampur Chini Mills Limited. Location of the project activity is in Village Kumbhi,
Tehsil Gola Gokarannath, District Lakhimpur Kheri, State Uttar Pradesh, and Country India.
The details of the registered project are as follows:
Purpose of the project activity:
Kumbhi Chini Mills is a unit of Balrampur Chini Mills Limited., located in Kumbhi village of
Lakhimpur Kheri district, Uttar Pradesh. Plant has installed three biomass fired boilers, of which two
boilers have capacities of 90 TPH each and one has a capacity of 55 TPH. All the three boilers are
connected with a common steam header and together connected to three turbines, of which two have
capacity 10 MW each and one has a capacity of 12.7 MW. The cogeneration facility generates steam
for both process needs and meeting the electricity requirements of the plant. After meeting the inhouse demand of electricity, surplus electricity is exported to the grid. The state discom, Uttar Pradesh
Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) has signed a PPA on 26/08/2006 for 11 MW power supply. It
has also signed a supplementary PPA for additional 12 MW power supply. The total contracted
capacity, therefore, is 23 MW. The purpose of the project activity is to provide renewable electricity
to the grid, thereby increasing the percentage of renewable energy in the present grid mix.
In absence of the project activity, equivalent amount of electricity which is supplied by this project
activity would have been supplied to the grid by predominantly fossil fuel based power plant(s)
connected to this grid. The plant commissioning date is 27/04/2007. As per UCR guideline, start date
of the crediting period would be considered from 01/01/2013.

_____
The project is within the industrial facility of Kumbhi Chini Mills, which is a plant of Balrampur
Chini Mills Limited. The project boundary encompasses equipments installed for the operation of
cogeneration plant, which includes three boilers, of which two have capacity 90 TPH each and one
has a capacity of 55 TPH. All the three boilers are connected to different turbines of which two have
rated power capacities of 10 MW each and one has a rated power of 12.7 MW. Beside this, the
biomass storage facility, the facility (i.e., sugar unit) consuming the energy (both electrical and
thermal) so generated by the project activity and the supply of surplus electricity to the grid are also
included in the project boundary.
Plant would use biomass residues like bagasse as fuel for the boiler. Quantity of the biomass required
would be generated in-house as bagasse is produced as a process waste of the sugar mill
_________
